Hegel's Philosophy of Right, tr. S. W. Dyde (1896), §199

§ 199. Through the dependence and co-operation involved in labour, subjective self-seeking is converted into a contribution towards the satisfaction of the wants of all others. The universal so penetrates the particular by its dialectic movement, that the individual, while acquiring, producing, and enjoying for himself, at the same time produces and acquires for the enjoyment of others. This is a necessity, and in this necessity arising out of mutual dependence is contained the fact of a general and permanent wealth (§ 170). In it each person may share by means of his education and skill. Each, too, is by it assured of subsistence, while the results of his labour preserve and increase the general wealth.

Hegel, Lectures on the Philosophy of History, tr. J. Sibree (1857), The Elements of the Greek Spirit

Since the whole range of spiritual and moral qualities was appropriated by the gods, the unity, which stood above them all, necessarily remained abstract; it was therefore formless and unmeaning Fact, [the absolute constitution of things] — Necessity, whose oppressive character arises from the absence of the Spiritual in it; whereas the gods hold a friendly relation to men, for they are Spiritual natures. That higher thought, the knowledge of Unity as God, — the One Spirit, — lay beyond that grade of thought which the Greeks had attained.

Hegel, Lectures on the Philosophy of History, tr. J. Sibree (1857), Introduction

Universal Abstract Existence generally with the Individual, — the Subjective — that this alone is Truth, belongs to the department of speculation, and is treated in this general form in Logic. — But in the process of the "World's History itself, — as still incomplete, — the abstract final aim of history is not yet made the distinct object of desire and interest. While these limited sentiments are still unconscious of the purpose they are fulfilling, the universal principle is implicit in them, and is realizing itself through them. The question also assumes the form of the union of Freedom and Necessity; the latent abstract process of Spirit being regarded as Necessity, while that which exhibits itself in the conscious will of men, as their interest, belongs to the domain of Freedom.

Hegel, Lectures on the Philosophy of History, tr. J. Sibree (1857), The Modern Time, The Reformation

But Luther's onslaught, which was at first limited to particular points, was soon extended to the doctrines of the Church; and leaving individuals, he attacked institutions at large — conventual life, the secular lordships of the bishops, &c. His writings now controverted not merely isolated dicta of the Pope and the Councils, but the very principle on which such a mode of deciding points in dispute was based — in fact, the Authority of the Church. Luther repudiated that authority, and set up in its stead the Bible and the testimony of the Human Spirit.

Hegel, Lectures on the Philosophy of History, tr. J. Sibree (1857), Introduction: the Geographical Basis of History

But as the peoples that have occupied these lands, have been shut up within themselves, and have not appropriated that element of civilization which the sea supplies, (or at any rate only at the commencement of their civilization) and as their navigation of it — to whatever extent it may have taken place — remained without influence on their culture, — a relation to the rest of History could only exist in their case, through their being sought out, and their character investigated by others. The mountain-girdle of the upland, the upland itself, and the river-plains, characterize Asia physically and spiritually; but they themselves are not concretely, really, historical elements.

Hegel, Lectures on the Philosophy of History, tr. J. Sibree (1857), The Elements of the Greek Spirit

In summing up the constituents of the Greek Spirit, we find its fundamental characteristic to be, that the freedom of Spirit is conditioned by and has an essential relation to some stimulus supplied by Nature. Greek freedom of thought is excited by an alien existence; but it is free because it transforms and virtually reproduces the stimulus by its own operation. This phase of Spirit is the medium between the loss of individuality on the part of man (such as we observe in the Asiatic principle, in which the Spiritual and Divine exists only under a Natural form), and Infinite Subjectivity as pure certainty of itself — the position that the Ego is the ground of all that can lay claim to substantial existence.

Hegel, Lectures on the Philosophy of History, tr. J. Sibree (1857), The Oriental World, Egypt

Their vast edifices — such as no other nation has to exhibit, and which excel all others in solidity and size — sufficiently prove their artistic skill; to whose cultivation, they could largely devote themselves, because the inferior castes did not trouble themselves with political matters. Diodorus Siculus says, that Egypt was the only country in which the citizens did not trouble themselves about the state, but gave their whole attention to their private business. Greeks and Romans must have been especially astonished at such a state of things.

Hegel, The Introduction to Hegel's Philosophy of Fine Art, tr. Bernard Bosanquet (1886), Range of Aesthetic

However all this may be, it certainly is the case, that art no longer affords that satisfaction of spiritual wants which earlier epochs and peoples have sought therein, and have found therein only; a satisfaction which, at all events on the religious side, was most intimately and profoundly connected with art. The beautiful days of Greek art, and the golden time of the later middle ages are gone by. The reflective culture of our life of to-day, makes it a necessity for us, in respect of our will no less than of our judgment, to adhere to general points of view, and to regulate particular matters according to them, so that general forms, laws, duties, rights, maxims are what have validity as grounds of determination and are the chief regulative force.

Hegel's Philosophy of Right, tr. S. W. Dyde (1896), §269

A proof of religious feeling is considered to be indifference to worldly affairs and to the course and tenor of actual life. But the state is the spirit, as it abides in the world. To refer people to religion is far from calculated to exalt the interest and business of the state into a really earnest purpose. On the contrary, state concerns are held to be a matter of pure caprice, and are therefore rejected. The ground for this step is that in the state only the purposes of passion and unlawful power prevail, or that religion, when taken by ^itself, is sufficient to control and decide what is right.

Hegel's Philosophy of Right, tr. S. W. Dyde (1896), §64

Note. — Prescription does not run counter to strict, right and is not introduced into law merely to cut short the strife and confusion, which would naturally arise out of old claims. It is founded on the reality of property, in other words upon the necessity that the will, in order to keep a thing, must manifest itself in it. — Public monuments are property of the nation, or rather they, like all works of art intended for use, are living and self-sufficient ends because of their indwelling soul of remembrance and honour.

Hegel's Philosophy of Mind, tr. William Wallace (1894), §515

Because the substance is the absolute unity of individuality and universality of freedom, it follows that the actuality and action of each individual to keep and to take care of his own being, while it is on one hand conditioned by the pre-supposed total in whose complex alone he exists, is on the other a transition into a universal product.—The social disposition of the individuals is their sense of the substance, and of the identity of all their interests with the total; and that the other individuals mutually know each other and are actual only in this identity, is confidence (trust)—the genuine ethical temper.

Hegel, The Phenomenology of Mind, volume II, tr. J. B. Baillie (1910), The Moral View of the World

The proposition consequently now runs thus: "there is no morally complete actual self-consciousness"; and, since what is moral only is in the long run so far as it is complete, — for duty is the pure unadulterated ultimate element (Ansich), and morahty consists merely in conformity to this pure principle — the second proposition runs: " there is no morally actual existence at all." Since, however, in the third place, it is a self, it is inherently the unity of duty and actual reahty. This unity thus becomes its object, as completed morality — but as something beyond its actual reality, and yet a " beyond" which still ought to be real.

Hegel, Lectures on the Philosophy of History, tr. J. Sibree (1857), The Oriental World, Egypt

On the other hand, subjectivity, when free, is inherently infinite: the Kingdom of free Spirit is therefore the Kingdom of the Invisible, — such as Hades was conceived by the Greeks. This presents itself to men first as the empire of death,— to the Egyptians as the Realm of the Dead. The idea that Spirit is immortal, involves this, — that the human individual inherently possesses infinite value. / The merely Natural appears limited, — absolutely dependent upon something other than itself, — and has its existence in that other; but Immortality involves the inherent infinitude of Spirit. This idea is first found among the Egyptians. But it must be added, that the soul was known to the Egyptians previously only as an atom — that is, as something concrete and particular.

Hegel's Philosophy of Mind, tr. William Wallace (1894), §573

But instead of ascertaining these different modes, the ordinary physicist (chemist included) takes up only one, the most external and the worst, viz. composition, applies only it in the whole range of natural structures, which he thus renders for ever inexplicable. The aforesaid shallow pantheism is an equally obvious inference from this shallow identity. All that those who employ this invention of their own to accuse philosophy gather from the study of God’s relation to the world is that the one, but only the one factor of this category of relation—and that the factor of indeterminateness—is identity. Thereupon they stick fast in this half-perception, and assert—falsely as a fact—that philosophy teaches the identity of God and the world.

Hegel's Philosophy of Right, tr. S. W. Dyde (1896), §140

§ 140. As every end belongs to the purpose of actual concrete action, it necessarily has a positive side (§ 130), which self-consciousness knows on occasion how to bring forward. But as self-consciousness implies a turning back into oneself, and is aware of the universal of the will, an act has also a negative side. The positive side of an act, whose negative content stands in open contrast with the universal, may be looked on as a duty and an excellent motive, and be maintained by self-consciousness to be good for others as well as for itself. To hold it good for others is hypocrisy; and to hold it good for itself is a still higher summit of the subjectivity, which maintains itself to be the absolute.

Hegel's Philosophy of Right, tr. S. W. Dyde (1896), §284

The peculiar majesty of the monarch, as the final deciding subjectivity, is exalted above all responsibility for the acts of government. § 285. The third element of the princely function concerns the absolutely universal, which consists subjectively in the conscience of the monarch, objectively in the whole constitution and the laws. The princely function presupposes these other elements, just as much as they presuppose it. § 286. The objective guarantee of the princely office, or the securing of the lawful succession to the throne by inheritance, lies in the fact that, just as this office has a reality distinct from the other elements determined by reason, so the others have also their independent and peculiar rights and duties. Every member of a rational organism, while preserving itself in independence, preserves also the peculiarities of the others.

Hegel's Philosophy of Right, tr. S. W. Dyde (1896), §135

Materials, it is true, may be introduced from without, and in this way specific duties may be secured; but from duty, whose characteristic is an absence of contradiction or formal concord with itself, a characteristic which is no more than the establishment of abstract indefiniteness, no specific duties can be deduced. Nor, further, if any specific content of action comes up for consideration, is there in this principle any way of judging whether it is a duty or not. On the contrary, all manner of wrong and immoral acts may be by such a method justified.

Hegel's Philosophy of Right, tr. S. W. Dyde (1896), §177

§ 177. The ethical or social dismemberment of the family occurs when the children have grown to be free personalities. They are recognized as legal persons, when they have attained their majority. They are then capable both of possessing free property of their own and of founding their own families, sons as heads of the family, and daughters as wives. In the new family the founders have now their substantive office, in contrast with which the first family must occupy a subordinate place as mere basis and point of departure. The family stock is an abstraction which has no rights.

Hegel's Philosophy of Right, tr. S. W. Dyde (1896), §278

The element of the ultimate self- determining decision of will does not appear as an immanent vital element of the actual state in its peculiar reality, so long as the classification of constitutions into democracy, aristocracy, and monarchy can be made. When this classification prevails we are, as we have said, at the stage of the undeveloped substantive unity, which has not yet reached infinite difference and self-immersion. But even in these incomplete forms of the state the summit must be occupied by an individual. Either he appears in actual fact, as iu those monarchies, which are of this type. Or, under aristocratic, or more especially under democratic governments, he appears iu the person of statesmen or generals, according to accident and the particular need of the time.

Hegel, Lectures on the Philosophy of History, tr. J. Sibree (1857), Introduction

But though we might tolerate the idea that individuals, their desires and the gratification of them, are thus sacrificed, and their happiness given up to the empire of chance, to which it belongs; and that as a general rule, individuals come under the category of means to an ulterior end,— there is one aspect of human individuality which we should hesitate to regard in that subordinate light, even in relation to the highest; since it is absolutely no subordinate element, but exists in those individuals as inherently eternal and divine.
